hey look up there's a meteor shower
happening right now
okay not really but i made you look
if you're a fan of full moons there's
one coming up very soon
on february 27th to be exact i really
hope this video comes out in time
the moon will be lit up right in front
of our eyes because it will be located
on the opposite side of the earth where
the sun is
it will help illuminate the moon
providing us
with a night to remember take a good
look at it
doesn't it sort of resemble a huge
snowball just hanging from the sky
some native tribes in the northern
hemisphere of our planet might have
thought the same
that's why they used to call it the snow
moon you know
when it was big and full like this
okay go ahead and grab a telescope now
because on the 9th and 10th of march
there are three planets that will line
up for your aesthetical pleasure
starting from top to bottom you'll see
jupiter then
saturn and last but surely not least
mercury
now depending on how good your telescope
is and if you've even got one
chances are you'll see some details of
these three planets
you adjust your telescope a bit and
there it is
another planet almost like they're not
thousands and thousands of miles away
from each other
but that's not all they'll be visible to
the unaided eye too
this means you won't even need a
telescope well
you'll probably see them like this three
bright white balls in the sky
still astonishing though you'll need to
be looking at the southeast
around half an hour before the sun rises
and
voila there they are in the mood for a
relaxing shower
how about a meteor shower instead this
time you can keep your telescope safely
stored
and you don't need to worry if you miss
one or two of these showers
as there are quite a few happening this
year they're pretty evenly spread out
too
and i don't mean the meteors those come
close together
grab your calendar and put a reminder on
these months
you can choose from april august october
november and december some months even
have
two showers instead of only one like
october and november
choose the month and day that works for
you just check your calendar again
if you don't mind it being a bit chilly
just wrap yourself up in a blanket
and hop in the back of your pickup truck
then all you have to do is stare up and
enjoy the sky
all night long waiting for the shower to
happen
or if you like to work by the clock set
up an alarm to wake you up in the middle
of the night
that works too mercury's coming right at
you
watch out nah don't fret it's still
right up there
just a bit closer than usual that's
because on the 17th of may
it'll be at its greatest eastern
elongation
what this means is it will be easier to
observe
right after sunset point your eyes to
the skies in the
west and try to look for the planet this
happens again during the 4th of july
but this time you'll have to look to the
east you might need a compass
start your celebrations early in the
morning just before the sun rises with a
gorgeous
view of mercury and of course a cup of
coffee in your hand
if you still don't catch it then try
september 14th
or october 25th how about when the moon
loses its natural white color
this happens just a few days after
mercury's first performance
on may 26th it's called a total
lunar eclipse the moon will get
gradually darker
as if someone was dropping dark red
paint on it
until it finally reaches this sort of
rusty red color that you can see on the
screen
not all of us will be able to see this
unless you're on a cruise in the pacific
ocean
or in the calm fields of eastern asia if
you live next to the tokyo tower
you're in luck it'll be visible
throughout the whole of japan
and if you happen to live in the western
part of north america
you'll also be able to see the moon
shape shift well
not quite shape shift it's not going to
turn into a wolf or anything
that only happens if you're a werewolf
which i definitely
am not so it's more like a color shift
still on the moon picture a massive
black hole
well this next astronomical event kind
of resembles that
on june 10th during the annular solar
eclipse
the moon will be the furthest it ever
gets from earth
while it's doing this it ends up
covering most of the sun
leaving just a bit of its curvature for
us to see
if you happen to look at the sky during
this time what you'll see
is a massive ring of light chances are
you won't be able to tell that's the
moon out there
since it'll be the same color as deep
space the absence of color
or just a very deep black oh and that
ring you're seeing
that's the sunlight okay since we're
talking about rings
i've got one for you saturn's ring this
planet is the full package
it's a planet it has a ring and get
ready for this
it has 82 moons it feels like every year
a few new ones pop up out of nowhere
anyway during august 2nd the planet will
be at its closest point to earth
and the sun will help us catch a good
sight of it by brightly illuminating it
not only will it be brighter than it
ever is during the whole year
but it will also be visible all night
long
this is the time to get that telescope
ready again
a medium-sized one should do the trick
that is
if you want to see its rings and some of
its moons the ones that shine the
brightest
another planet that's coming closer is
jupiter
this time on august 19th the same thing
that happened to saturn will happen to
it
the sun will shine bright on its big
planet face
the only difference is that this time if
you have a good pair of binoculars lying
around
you'll be able to see the planet's four
largest moons
although they'll look like tiny dots but
now you know what they really are
okay so you've been thinking about those
meteor showers i mentioned earlier
well this one is the best there is it's
called the perseids meteor shower
and it almost looks like the sky is a
pitching machine
except it's pitching meteors during this
particular shower
you might even be able to observe up to
60 meteors per hour
they're very bright too look at them go
zoom
there goes another one the best days to
get cozy
sit on the grass and just lie there
looking at the sky
is during august 12th and 13th usually
when these two days come around
the sky's dark and clear perfect for a
meteor shower
picture a slightly red moon that's
called the partial lunar eclipse
and it happens during the 19th of
november this same red moon will get
darker and darker as it moves through
earth's shadow
it won't be visible to everyone though
here's a globe
let's mark the places where you can see
this partial lunar eclipse
first we got eastern eurasia then japan
the pacific ocean is included in this
list too but
unless you got a boat you're likely not
going to be there
then we've got north america mexico
central america
and lastly some parts of western south
africa
grab a hold of your eclipse glasses and
get ready for this last one
it's the last solar eclipse of the year
this one in particular
is the best one to catch as the moon
will block the sun
for almost two minutes you'll be able to
see the almost ghost-like sun's corona
also known as its outer atmosphere the
sad part is
you'll have to be in antarctica or the
south atlantic
and just be careful out there i heard it
gets a little chilly